# Lore:4. Instrument of Vengeance

<!-- UESP / ns 130 / dump 2026-03-13 -->

{{Lore Book
|ON=1
|up=[[Lore:Monument Island Plaques|Monument Island Plaques]]
|prev=[[Lore:3. The All Flags Navy|3. The All Flags Navy]]
|next=[[Lore:5. Construction of Monument Island|5. Construction of Monument Island]]
|ONExtra=([[Online:High Isle (Chapter)|High Isle]])
|description=A plaque commemorating a series of events involving the All Flags Navy
|grouping=Numeric
}}
Between {{Year|1E 2249}} and {{Year|1E 2259}}, the shipyards worked night and day to turn out the massive number of vessels needed to bolster the {{Lore Link|All Flags Navy}}. By {{Year|1E 2260|2260}}, the armada numbered some 130 ships of various sizes flying under the banners of the {{Lore Link|Argonian}}s, {{Lore Link|Breton}}s, {{Lore Link|Colovia}}ns, {{Lore Link|Elves}}, {{Lore Link|Khajiit}}, {{Lore Link|Redguard}}s, and even freebooters and mercenaries. These same nations also sent thousands of sailors, marines, adventurers, and support personnel in perhaps the greatest allied action in {{Lore Link|Tamriel}}ic history. The fleet was ready. It was time to unleash Tamriel's instrument of vengeance on the {{Lore Link|Sload}}.

With the powerful Elf mage {{Lore Link|Syrabane}} at his side, Baron-Admiral {{Lore Link|Bendu Olo}} issued the order and the allied armada sailed out of the {{Lore Link|High Isle}} port toward the {{Lore Link|Coral}} Kingdoms of {{Lore Link|Thras}}. From the {{Lore Link|Abecean Sea}} and into the {{Lore Link|Sea of Pearls}} the fleet sailed, using enchanted {{Lore Link|lodestone}}s to navigate and keep the numerous ships in formation and on course. When they reached the {{Lore Link|Thras}}sian Archipelago after sailing through a fierce storm, they found the islands surrounded by a dense fog. Bendu appeared on each ship as a magical projection and ordered the fleet to attack the largest tower and lay siege to its coral tower.

Many ships were lost, but the Sload paid the price for unleashing their dastardly plague upon Tamriel. Baron-Admiral Bendu Olo led the surviving ships of the fleet back to High Isle in victory!
{{Book Footer}}